Few weeks before in my Hostel my freind who is in Cyber security club of my club told me that I can password of Linux(basically the Linux he was referring was ubuntu ) from GRUB. I was like what the hell! How he can do this and if he can do this then he might change my password through GRUB. I thought that I am not going to him mine laptop for sure, then I asked him from where you got this knowledge, then he told me that he read this in blog of other member of the same club. After few days I came to know that many of freinds know about this, but the QUESTION is ONLY THE PASSWORD CAN BE CHANGED FROM GRUB OR OTHER THINGS CAN BE DONE TOO?

Why to protect your BIOS with password?

1. Preventing Changes to BIOS Settings — If an intruder has access to the BIOS, they can set it to boot off of a diskette or CD-ROM. This makes it possible for them to enter rescue mode or single user mode, which in turn allows them to seed nefarious programs on the system or copy sensitive data. 

2. Preventing System Booting — Some BIOSes allow password protection of the boot process. When activated, an attacker is forced to enter a password before the BIOS launches the boot loader. 

Why to protect Boot Loader with password?

1.Preventing Access to Single User Mode — If an attacker can boot into single user mode, he becomes the root user. 

2.Preventing Access to the GRUB Console — If the machine uses GRUB as its boot loader, an attacker can use the use the GRUB editor interface to change its configuration or to gather information using the cat command. 

3.Preventing Access to Non-Secure Operating Systems — If it is a dual-boot system, an attacker can select at boot time an operating system, such as DOS, which ignores access controls and file permissions. 

Now HOW TO ADD PASSWORD TO GRUB?
-> Though I also don't know much about it so, I just googled and found out the answer and I am pasting the same thing wriiten which I found ,
here it goes-

	GRUB can be configured to address the first two issues listed in Section 4.2.2 Boot Loader Passwords by adding a password directive to its configuration file. To do this, first decide on a password, then open a shell prompt, log in as root, and type:

/sbin/grub-md5-crypt

When prompted, type the GRUB password and press [Enter]. This returns an MD5 hash of the password.

Next, edit the GRUB configuration file /boot/grub/grub.conf. Open the file and below the timeout line in the main section of the document, add the following line:

password --md5 <password-hash>

Replace <password-hash> with the value returned by /sbin/grub-md5-crypt[2].

The next time the system boots, the GRUB menu does not allow access to the editor or command interface without first pressing [p] followed by the GRUB password.

Unfortunately, this solution does not prevent an attacker from booting into a non-secure operating system in a dual-boot environment. For this, a different part of the /boot/grub/grub.conf file must be edited.

Look for the title line of the non-secure operating system and add a line that says lock directly beneath it.

For a DOS system, the stanza should begin similar to the following:

title DOS
lock

Warning	Warning
 	

A password line must be present in the main section of the /boot/grub/grub.conf file for this method to work properly. Otherwise, an attacker can access the GRUB editor interface and remove the lock line.

To create a different password for a particular kernel or operating system, add a lock line to the stanza followed by a password line.

Each stanza protected with a unique password should begin with lines similar to the following example:

title DOS
lock
password --md5 <password-hash>


*some important notes that should be kept in mind-
[1] Since system BIOSes differ between manufacturers, some may not support password protection of either type, while others may support one type but not the other. 

[2] GRUB also accepts unencrypted passwords, but it is recommended that an md5 hash be used for added security.


I haven't tried it but I think it should work, But I'll try it and post the answer.
Think before you try it.
TRY AT YOUR OWN RISK. 

By-
ANKIT RAJ OJHA
